# CS5031 - Software Engineering Practices - P2


## NAME
**ROUTE MAPPING SYSTEM USING SPRING FRAMEWORK AND RESTFUL API**
--
## DESCRIPTION
<p> 
<em> This is a <strong>RESTful API</strong> and <strong> web interface (UI using Vue) </strong> for a bus travel planner system. The system stores information about routes, stops, and timetable information for the routes. The aim of this project is to provide users with an easy and efficient way to access bus travel information.
</em>
</p>

## Authors and acknowledgement

### Team Members :

            1) 220031985 - Model ,Service Layer and Controllers (Back-end) , Code-Review , Report.
            2) 220033341 - UI and API (Front-End) & Report , Code -Review.
            3) 220030476 - Tests (Front-end & Back-end), Code -Review , Report.


--- 

### Technologies Used

* Spring FRAMEWORK
* Java 17 
* JUnit 5
* Maven
* Git
* Restful Api
---

### FILE STRUCTURE :

<ol>
<li>.mvn/wrapper	
<li>all_test_frontend - <strong> Front-end development folder</strong>
<li> src - <strong> Back end development folder </strong>     
<li>README.md
<li>mvnw	
<li>mvnw.cmd
<li>pom.xml
</ol>


## SETUP AND INSTALLATION

<strong> Terminal Usage or IDE Based</strong>
<strong> For Backend : </strong>
<ol>
<li> Clone the repository from the school Gitlab server.
<li> Run <code> mvn clean compile</code> to build the project.
<li> Run  <code> mvn test</code> to run the tests.
<li> Run <code> mvn spring:boot run </code>  or <code> mvn org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-maven-plugin:run </code> to access the API. ( try both commands.)
<li> Note : The port allocated for the API is : <strong> 8080 </strong>.
<br/>
</ol>

---

<strong> For Frontend : </strong>
<ol>
<li> Open <strong>all_test_frontend</strong> in another project.
<li> Run <code> npm install</code>
<li> Run <code> npm run dev </code>
<li> Click on the link generated by the program to access the <strong>UI interface</strong>.
<li> <strong> Note : Ensure to run the backend before running the front-end of the Application.</strong>
</ol>
<br/>

---

## EXTRA FUNCTIONALITIES 
<ol>
<li> Save to file.
<li> Load to file.
<li> View All routes.
<li> View All schedules and stops.
<li> Get from user <strong> DATE (FORMAT : dd-mm-yyyy) </strong> only and generate and store <strong>DAY </strong> automatically. 
<li> Route ID & ScheduleIdentifier : Accepts alphanumeric characters 
<li> Route Name & Stop Name : Accepts only alphabets.
</ol>

---

### NO OF TESTS WRITTEN : 81 

---

### CONTRIBUTION GUIDELINES : 
- Clone the repository from the school Gitlab server.
- Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.
- Write unit tests for your code.
- Implement your feature or bug fix.
- Ensure all tests pass.
- Commit your changes and push to your branch on the Gitlab server.
- Submit a merge request to merge your changes into the main branch.

--- 
### License
This project is done part of coursework of <strong> CS5031 - Software Engineering Practice</strong> of the <strong> Computer Science Dept of University of St.Andrews.</strong> </br>

This project is licensed under the <code> MIT License. </code>See the <code>LICENSE</code> file for more information.




